In a modern computer, the processor, or CPU, is designed to run as many streams of code as possible at the same time. These processors have one or more “cores,” each capable of running one stream of code at the same time. So, the more cores a program can use simultaneously, the faster the program will run. However, in order for programs to take advantage of the speed increase that multiple cores provide, programs need to be able to be split into multiple streams of code. Splitting a program into parts can be one of the more challenging things to do in programming, but Go was designed to make this easier.

One way Go does this is with a feature called goroutines. A goroutine is a special type of function that can run while other goroutines are also running. When a program is designed to run multiple streams of code at once, the program is designed to run concurrently. Typically, when a function is called, it will finish running completely before the code after it continues to run. This is known as running in the “foreground” because it prevents your program from doing anything else before it finishes. With a goroutine, the function call will continue running the next code right away while the goroutine runs in the “background”. Code is considered running in the background when it doesn’t prevent other code from running before it finishes.

The power goroutines provide is that each goroutine can run on a processor core at the same time. If your computer has four processor cores and your program has four goroutines, all four goroutines can run simultaneously. When multiple streams of code are running at the same time on different cores like this, it’s called running in parallel.

Ref:
https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-run-multiple-functions-concurrently-in-go